Craigslist and Google Maps Mashup Thingy: Day 5 – CakePHP
Published on April 10, 2007.
Today technically counts as day 5 of my Craigslist and Google Maps Mashup thing since I didn’t work on it at all yesterday due to getting Command and Conquer 3: Kane Edition .
I got the limited edition number 73137, which is cool since it’s a palindrome!
Anyway, today I actually did work a little bit on the mashup.
I spent most of my time switching out from a random php output file to a CakePHP setup.
I haven’t ever used CakePHP before, but I have used Ruby on Rails quite a bit.
CakePHP is sort of like PHP’s answer to rails.
It copies a lot of the ideas and conventions that Ruby on Rails expects developers to follow.
Because of the similarities between CakePHP and Rails, I found it pretty simple to migrate the PHP I already had to CakePHP.
I just had to learn the proper syntax to get everything working in Cake.
I still think Ruby is a really beautifully simple language to write code in.
Cake tries to get things looking Ruby-ish, but there’s still some weirdness involved.
It’s good for me to be learning these PHP things anyway, though.
I’ve put PHP on the backburner for too long.
Tomorrow, if I have time to work on the project, I think I’ll implement the actual UI side of things.
I have a rough idea of how I want users to be able to interact with the site.
Hopefully designing the interface will be as easy as it is in Rails.